dataset_accession	title	summary	dataset_landing_url
GSE17312	BI Human Reference Epigenome Mapping Project	The NIH Roadmap Epigenomics Mapping Consortium aims to produce a public resource of epigenomic maps for stem cells and primary ex vivo tissues selected to represent the normal counterparts of tissues and organ systems frequently involved in human disease. Characterization of the reference epigenome in humans by use of ChIP-Seq in a diverse panel of ES cells, tissue stem cells, reprogrammed stem cells, primary cells and tissues **************** For data usage terms and conditions, please refer to: http://www.drugabuse.gov/funding/funding-opportunities/nih-common-fund/epigenomics-data-access-policies ****************	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE17312
GSE18927	University of Washington Human Reference Epigenome Mapping Project	The NIH Roadmap Epigenomics Mapping Consortium aims to produce a public resource of epigenomic maps for stem cells and primary ex vivo tissues selected to represent the normal counterparts of tissues and organ systems frequently involved in human disease. Study of chromatin accessibility and expression using exon arrays. **************** For data usage terms and conditions, please refer to: http://www.drugabuse.gov/funding/funding-opportunities/nih-common-fund/epigenomics-data-access-policies ****************	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE18927
GSE26880	PARP1- and CTCF-mediated interactions between active and repressed chromatin at the lamina promote oscillating transcription	Transcriptionally active and inactive chromatin domains tend to segregate into separate sub-nuclear compartments to maintain stable expression patterns. However, we have uncovered here an inter-chromosomal network connecting active loci enriched in circadian genes to repressed lamina-associated domains (LADs). The interactome is regulated by PARP1 and its co-factor, CTCF, which not only mediate chromatin fiber interactions, but also promote the recruitment of circadian genes to the lamina. Synchronization of circadian rhythm by serum shock induces oscillations in PARP1-CTCF interactions, which is accompanied by oscillating recruitment of circadian loci to the lamina, followed by the acquisition of repressive H3K9me2 marks and transcriptional attenuation. Furthermore, depletion of H3K9me2/3, inhibition of PARP activity by Olaparib or down-regulation of PARP1 or CTCF expression counteracts both recruitment to the envelope and circadian transcription. PARP1- and CTCF-regulated contacts between circadian loci and the repressive chromatin environment at the lamina thus mediate circadian transcriptional plasticity.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE26880
GSE27452	Genome-wide maps of polyadenylation sites in control and PABPN1kd cells	We applied deep-sequencing based technique, 3'-Seq, to obtain comprehansive maps of poly-A sites in human cells. 3'-Seq was applied to two cell lines (U2OS and RPE-1), in control and PABPN1 knockdown cells	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE27452
GSE29282	A Hybrid Mechanism of Action for BCL6 in B Cells Defined by Formation of Functionally Distinct Complexes at Enhancers and Promoters	BCL6 is crucial for B-cell activation and lymphomagenesis. We used integrative genomics to explore BCL6 mechanism in normal and malignant B-cells. Surprisingly, BCL6 assembled distinct complexes at enhancers vs. promoters. At enhancers BCL6 preferentially recruited SMRT, which mediated H3K27 deacetylation through HDAC3, antagonized p300 activity and repressed transcription, but without decommissioning enhancers. This provides a biochemical basis for toggling enhancers from the active to poised state. Virtually all SMRT was bound with BCL6 suggesting that in B-cells BCL6 uniquely sequesters SMRT from other factors. In promoters BCL6 preferentially recruited BCOR, but most potently repressed promoters where it formed a distinctive ternary complex with SMRT and BCOR. Promoter repression was associated with decreased H3K36me3, H3K79me2 and Pol II elongation, linking BCL6 to transcriptional pausing.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE29282
GSE29943	Unstressed HeLa cells and ELAVL1/HuR knock down conditions: polyA RNA-Seq, small RNA-Seq, and PAR-CLIP	Post-transcriptional gene regulation relies on hundreds of RNA binding proteins (RBPs) but the function of most RBPs is unknown. The human RBP HuR/ELAVL1 is a conserved mRNA stability regulator. We used PAR-CLIP, a method based on RNA-protein crosslinking, to identify transcriptome wide ~26,000 HuR binding sites. These sites were on average highly conserved, enriched for HuR binding motifs and mainly located in 3' untranslated regions. Surprisingly, many sites were intronic, implicating HuR in splicing. Upon HuR knock down, mRNA levels and protein synthesis of thousands of target genes was down regulated, validating functionality. HuR and miRNA binding sites tended to reside nearby but generally did not overlap. Additionally, HuR knock down triggered strong and specific up regulation of miR-7. In summary, we identified thousands of direct and functional HuR targets, found a human miRNA controlled by HuR, and propose a role for HuR in splicing.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE29943
GSE30017	Widespread regulated alternative splicing of single codons accelerates proteome evolution	Thousands of human genes contain introns ending in NAGNAG motifs (N any nucleotide), where both NAGs can function as 3' splice sites, yielding isoforms differing by inclusion/exclusion of just three bases. However, the functional importance of NAGNAG alternative splicing is highly controversial. Using very deep RNA-Seq data from sixteen human and eight mouse tissues, we found that approximately half of alternatively spliced NAGNAGs undergo tissue-specific regulation and that regulated events have been selectively retained: alternative splicing of strongly tissue-specific NAGNAGs was ten times as likely to be conserved between species as for non-tissue-specific events. Further, alternative splicing of human NAGNAGs was associated with an order of magnitude increase in the frequency of exon length changes at orthologous mouse/rat exon boundaries, suggesting that NAGNAGs accelerate exon evolution. Together, our analyses show that NAGNAG alternative splicing constitutes a major generator of tissue-specific proteome diversity and accelerates evolution of proteins at exon-exon boundaries.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE30017
GSE32213	Integration of Hi-C and ChIP-seq data reveals distinct types of chromatin hubs	We have analyzed publicly available K562 Hi-C data, which enables genome-wide unbiased capturing of chromatin interactions, using a Mixture Poisson Regression Model to define a highly specific set of interacting genomic regions. We integrated multiple ENCODE Consortium resources with the Hi-C data, using DNase-seq data and ChIP-seq data for 46 transcription factors and 8 histone modifications. We classified 12 different sets (clusters) of interacting loci that can be distinguished by their chromatin modifications and which can be categorized into three types of chromatin hubs. The different clusters of loci display very different relationships with transcription factor binding sites. As expected, many of the transcription factors show binding patterns specific to clusters composed of interacting loci that encompass promoters or enhancers. However, cluster 6, which is distinguished by marks of open chromatin but not by marks of active enhancers or promoters, was not bound by most transcription factors but was highly enriched for 3 transcription factors (GATA1, GATA2, and c-Jun) and 3 chromatin modifiers (BRG1, INI1, and SIRT6). To validate the identification of the clusters and to dissect the impact of chromatin organization on gene regulation, we performed RNA-seq analyses before and after knockdown of GATA1 or GATA2. We found that knockdown of the GATA factors greatly alters the expression of genes within cluster 6. Our work, in combination with previous studies linking regulation by GATA factors with c-Jun and BRG1, provide genome-wide evidence that Hi-C data identifies sets of biologically relevant interacting loci.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE32213
GSE32260	Relationship between DNMT1-RNA interactions, DNA methylation and gene expression	This SuperSeries is composed of the SubSeries listed below.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE32260
GSE32307	Transposon-based construction of strand-specific RNA-seq libraries	We have developed two methods for efficiently consructing RNA-seq libraries using transposition. Each method constructs high quality RNA-seq libraries when compared to standard approaches. One of the methods (Directional Tn-RNA-seq) maintains strand-of-origin information and exhibits strand specificity comparable to current approaches.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE32307
GSE32625	RNA-Seq of human neurons derived from iPS cells Reveals candidate long non-coding RNAs Involved in neurogenesis and neuropsychiatric disorders.	As a preliminary step towards applying next generation sequencing using neurons derived from patient-specific iPSCs, we have carried out an RNA-Seq analysis on control human neurons. Dramatic changes in the expression of coding genes, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), pseudogenes, and splice isoforms were seen during the transition from pluripotent stem cells to early differentiating neurons. A number of genes that undergo radical changes in expression during this transition include candidates for schizophrenia (SZ), bipolar disorder (BD) and autism spectrum disorders (ASD) that function as transcription factors and chromatin modifiers, such as POU3F2 and ZNF804A, and genes coding for cell adhesion proteins implicated in these conditions including NRXN1 and NLGN1. In addition, a number of novel lncRNAs were found to undergo dramatic changes in expression, one of which is HOTAIRM1, a regulator of several HOXA genes during myelopoiesis. The increase we observed in differentiating neurons suggests a role in neurogenesis as well. Finally, several lncRNAs that map near SNPs associated with SZ in genome wide association studies also increase during neuronal differentiation, suggesting that these novel transcripts may be abnormally regulated in a subgroup of patients.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE32625
GSE33092	Oncogenic BRAFV600E remodels the melanocyte transcriptome and induces BANCR to regulate melanoma cell migration [HT-seq]	Most cancer genomics papers to date have focused on aberrations in genomic DNA and protein-coding transcripts. However, around 50%% of transcripts have no coding potential and may exist as non-coding RNA. We performed RNA-seq in BRAFv600e melanoma skin cancer and on melanocytes over-expressing oncogenic BRAF to catalog transcriptome remodeling. We discovered that BRAF regulates expression of 1027 protein coding transcripts, 39 annotated lncRNAs and 70 novel transcripts. Many of the novel transcripts are lncRNAs. We used an indepenedent dataset to interrogate our novel transcripts and found that the novel lncRNA BANCR is a BRAF-regulated lncRNA recurrently upregulated in melanoma. Knockdown of BANCR impairs melanoma cell migration.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE33092
GSE33592	Wide-scale analysis of alternative polyadenylation (APA) associated with proliferation and transformation using 3'-Seq	We mapped and quantified poly(A) sites in BJ and MCF10A cells under proliferative, arrested and transformed states	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE33592
GSE33600	RNA Subcellular Localization by Paired End diTag Sequencing from ENCODE/GIS	This data was generated by ENCODE. If you have questions about the data, contact the submitting laboratory directly (Yijun Ruan mailto:ruanyj@gis.a-star.edu.sg). If you have questions about the Genome Browser track associated with this data, contact ENCODE (mailto:genome@soe.ucsc.edu). This track is produced as part of the ENCODE Transcriptome Project. It shows the starts and ends of full length mRNA transcripts determined by GIS paired-end ditag (PET) sequencing using RNA extracts (http://hgwdev.cse.ucsc.edu/cgi-bin/hgEncodeVocab?type=rnaExtract) from different sub-cellular localizations (http://hgwdev.cse.ucsc.edu/cgi-bin/hgEncodeVocab?type=localization) in different cell lines (http://hgwdev.cse.ucsc.edu/cgi-bin/hgEncodeVocab?type=cellType). The RNA-PET information provided in this track is composed of two different PET length versions based on how the PETs were extracted. The cloning-based PET (18 bp and 16 bp) is an earlier version and detailed information can be found from reference (Ng et al. 2006). The cloning-free PET (25 bp and 25 bp) is a recently modified version which uses Type II enzyme EcoP15I to generate a longer length of PET (unpublished), which results in a significant enhancement in both library construction and mapping efficiency. Both versions of PET templates were sequenced by Illumina platform at 2 x 36 bp Paired End sequencing. See the Methods and References sections below for more details. For data usage terms and conditions, please refer to http://www.genome.gov/27528022 and http://www.genome.gov/Pages/Research/ENCODE/ENCODEDataReleasePolicyFinal2008.pdf	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE33600
GSE34740	K562 polyA RNA-Seq	RNA-Seq reads and TopHat (Trapnell et al. Bioinformatics 2009) alignments of K562 cell-line transcriptome. These were used to validate the expression of short peptides idenitified by Mass-Spectrometry in K562 cells.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE34740
GSE34995	Integrative genome-wide analysis reveals cooperative regulation of alternative splicing by hnRNP proteins (RNA-Seq)	Understanding how RNA binding proteins control the splicing code is fundamental to human biology and disease. Here we present a comprehensive study to elucidate how heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoparticle (hnRNP) proteins, among the most abundant RNA binding proteins, coordinate to regulate alternative pre-mRNA splicing (AS) in human cells. Using splicing-sensitive microarrays, cross-linking and immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing, and cDNA sequencing, we find that more than half of all AS events are regulated by multiple hnRNP proteins, and that some combinations of hnRNP proteins exhibit significant synergy, whereas others act antagonistically. Our analyses reveal position-dependent RNA splicing maps, in vivo consensus binding sites, a surprising level of cross- and auto-regulation among hnRNP proteins, and the coordinated regulation by hnRNP proteins of dozens of other RNA binding proteins and genes associated with cancer. Our findings define an unprecedented degree of complexity and compensatory relationships among hnRNP proteins and their splicing targets that likely confer robustness to cells.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE34995
GSE35126	Effects of Cardiac Glycosides on RNA Expression in Prostate Cancer LNCaP-abl Cells	Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and cardiac glycosides inhibit prostate cancer cell proliferation. In order to investigate the mechanism by which cardiac glycosides inhibit prostate cancer cells, we observed genome-wide RNA expression in prostate cancer LNCaP-abl cells, hormone resistant cells, after the cardiac glycoside treatment using RNA-Seq. In addition, we profiled LNCaP-abl cells after androgen receptor (AR) knockdown to observe whether cardiac glycoside effect on RNA expression is similar to that of AR knockdown.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE35126
GSE35268	Analysis of global gene expression profiles of hPAF1 deficient A549 cells	This SuperSeries is composed of the SubSeries listed below.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE35268
GSE35468	Transcriptome profiling of epidermal differentiation	The aim of this study was to establish a deeply sequenced transcriptome at multiple timepoints during the differentiation of human epidermal keratinocytes from the progenitor state (d0). These transcriptomes were then assembled in order to discover novel genes and transcriptional events that are dynamically regulated during terminal differentiation of a human somatic tissue.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE35468
GSE36552	Tracing pluripotency of human early embryos and embryonic stem cells by single cell RNA-seq	Find the casual relationship between gene expression network and cellular phenotype at single cell resolution. We collected donated human pre-implatation embryos, and the embryonic stem cells derived from them, isolate individual cells, prepared single cell cDNAs, and sequenced them by HiSeq2000. Then we analyzed the expression of known RefSeq genes.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE36552
GSE36952	Transcriptome wide analysis of classically and alternatively activated macrophages	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has revolutionized systems-based analysis of cellular pathways. The goals of this study are to compare NGS-derived human M1- and M2-like macrophage profiling (RNA-seq) to microarray and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRTPCR) methods and to establish a high resolution transcriptome of human macrophages. Total RNA was isolated from classically and aternative activated human macrophages.mRNA profiles were generated by deep sequencing og M1 and M2 macrophages from 3 donors using Illumina HiSeqSQ. The sequence reads that passed quality filters were analyzed at the transcript isoform level with two methods: Casava1.8 and TopHat followed by Cufflinks. qRTPCR validation was performed using LightCycler and SYBR Green assays.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE36952
GSE37037	Genomewide analysis of premRNA 3' end processing reveals a decisive role of human cleavage factor I in the regulation of 3' UTR length: A-seq	Through alternative polyadenylation, human mRNAs acquire longer or shorter 3' untranslated regions, the latter typically associated with higher transcript stability and increased protein production. To understand the dynamics of polyadenylation site usage, we mapped transcriptomewide both binding sites of 3' end processing factors CPSF160, CPSF100, CPSF73, CPSF30, Fip1, CstF64, CstF-64tau, CF Im25, CF Im59, and CF Im68 and 3' end processing sites in HEK293 cells. We found that although binding sites of these factors generally cluster around the poly(A) sites most frequently used in cleavage, CstF64/CstF-64tau and CF Im proteins have much higher positional specificity compared to CPSF components. Knockdown of CF Im68 induced a systematic use of proximal polyadenylation sites, indicating that changes in relative abundance of a single 3' end processing factor can modulate the length of 3' untranslated regions transcriptome-wide, and suggesting a mechanism behind the previously observed increase in tumor cell invasiveness upon CF Im68 knockdown.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE37037
GSE37211	DPN and Tamoxifen treatments of parathyroid adenoma cells	Stimulation of estrogen receptor beta in PHPT, genetic changes after 24 and 48h of treatments vs. Control	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE37211
GSE37524	Mixture models and wavelet transforms reveal high confidence RNA-protein interaction sites in MOV10 PAR-CLIP data	The Photo-Activatable Ribonucleoside-enhanced CrossLinking and ImmunoPrecipitation (PAR-CLIP) method was recently developed for global identification of RNAs interacting with proteins. The strength of this versatile method results from induction of specific T to C transitions at sites of interaction. However, current analytical tools do not distinguish between non-experimentally and experimentally induced transitions. Furthermore, geometric properties at potential binding sites are not taken into account. To surmount these shortcomings, we developed a two-step algorithm consisting of a non-parametric two-component mixture model and a wavelet-based peak calling procedure. Our algorithm can reduce the number of false positives up to 24%% thereby identifying high confidence interaction sites. We successfully employed this approach in conjunction with a modified PAR-CLIP protocol to study the functional role of nuclear MOV10, a putative RNA helicase interacting with Argonaute2 and Polycomb. Our method, available as the R package wavClusteR, is generally applicable to any substitution-based inference problem in genomics.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE37524
GSE37686	Identification of miRNA signatures during the differentiation of hESCs into retinal pigment epithelial cells	Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells can be obtained through in vitro differentiation of both embryonic stem cell (ESC) and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) for cell replacement therapy. We have previously identified 87 signature genes relevant to RPE cell differentiation and function through transcriptome analysis of both human ESC- and iPSC-derived RPE as well as normal fetal RPE. Here, we profiled miRNA expression through small RNA-seq in human ESCs and their RPE derivatives. Much like conclusions drawn from our previous transcriptome analysis, we found that the overall miRNA landscape in RPE is distinct from ESCs and other differentiated somatic tissues. We also profiled miRNA expression during intermediate stages of RPE differentiation and identified unique subsets of miRNAs that are gradually up- or downregulated, suggesting dynamic regulation of these miRNAs is associated with the RPE differentiation process. Indeed, the down-regulation of a subset of miRNAs during RPE differentiation is associated with up-regulation of RPE-specific genes, such as RPE65, which is exclusively expressed in RPE. We conclude that miRNA signatures can be used to classify different degrees of in vitro differentiation of RPE from human pluripotent stem cells. We suggest that RPE-specific miRNAs likely contribute to the functional maturation of RPE in vitro, similar to the regulation of RPE-specific mRNA expression.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE37686
GSE37703	Differential analysis of HOXA1 in adult cells at isoform resolution by RNA-Seq [Illumina]	High-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) has enabled accurate gene discovery and expression estimation, but robust differential analysis of gene and transcript abundances has proven difficult. We present a new algorithm, implemented in the freely available tool Cuffdiff, which integrates transcript-level expression estimation with a method to control for variability across replicate samples. Cuffdiff robustly identifies differentially regulated isoforms and genes and reveals differential splicing or promoter-preference changes. We demonstrate the accuracy of our approach through differential analysis of lung fibroblasts in response to loss of the developmental transcription factor HOXA1 and uncover a critical role for this gene in the maintenance of adult cells. We show that HOXA1 is required for lung fibroblast and HeLa cell cycle progression, and loss of HOXA1 results in significant expression level changes in thousands of individual transcripts, along with isoform switching events in key regulators of the cell cycle.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE37703
GSE37769	mRNA profiling of THP1 cell line	Analysis of mRNA in THP1 (human monocytic leukemia) cell line in order to correlate miRNA activity with target abundance.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE37769
GSE37918	RNA-seq in breast cancer cell lines after manipulation of miR-23b expression	RNA sequencing technology has been carried out in order to evaluate mRNA expression changes after manipulation of miR-23b in both MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell lines	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE37918
GSE38157	The mRNA-bound proteome and its global occupancy profile on protein-coding transcripts	This SuperSeries is composed of the SubSeries listed below.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38157
GSE38233	Study functions of ADAR proteins using next generation sequencing of genome and transcriptome	Adenosine deaminases, RNA specific (ADAR) are proteins that deaminate adenosine to inosine which is then recognized in translation as guanosine. To study the roles of ADAR proteins in RNA editing and gene regulation, we carried out DNA and RNA sequencing, RNA interference and RNA-immunoprecipitation in human B-cells. We also characterized the ADAR protein complex by mass spectrometry. The results uncovered over 60,000 sites where the adenosines (A) are edited to guanosine (G) and several thousand genes whose expression levels are influenced by ADAR. We also identified more than 100 proteins in the ADAR protein complex; these include splicing factors, heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins and several members of the dynactin protein family. Our findings show that in human B-cells, ADAR proteins are involved in two independent functions: A-to-G editing and gene expression regulation. In addition, we showed that other types of RNA-DNA sequence differences are not mediated by ADAR proteins, and thus there are co- or post-transcriptional mechanisms yet to be determined.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38233
GSE38234	Genistein and bisphenol A exposure cause estrogen receptor 1 to bind thousands of binding sites in a cell type-specific manner	To obtain an integrated view of gene regulation in response to environmental and endogenous estrogens on a genome-wide scale, we performed ChIP-seq, to identify estrogen receptor 1 (ER) binding sites, and RNA-seq in endometrial cancer cells exposed to bisphenol A (BPA; found in plastics), genistein (GEN; found in soybean), or 17-estradiol (E2; an endogenous estrogen).GEN and BPA treatment induces thousands of ER binding sites and >50 gene expression changes, representing a subset of E2induced gene regulation changes. Genes affected by E2 were highly enriched for ribosome-associated proteins; however, GEN and BPA failed to regulate most ribosome-associated proteins and instead enriched for transporters of carboxylic acids. Treatment-dependent changes in gene expression were associated with treatment-dependent ER binding sites, with the exception that many genes up-regulated by E2 harbored a BPA-induced ER binding site, but failed to show any expression change after BPA treatment. GEN and BPA exhibited a similar relationship to E2 in the breast cancer line T-47D, where cell type specificity played a much larger role than treatment specificity. Overall, both environmental estrogens clearly regulate gene expression through ER on a genome-wide scale, although with lower potency resulting in less ER binding sites and less gene expression changes compared to the endogenous estrogen, E2.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38234
GSE38265	mRNA expression in iPS cells generated by a synthetic self-replicative RNA	We generated iPS cells with a synthetic self-replicative RNA that expresses four independent reprogramming factors (OCT4, KLF4, SOX2 and either c-MYC or GLIS1). We performed whole genome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) of iPS cell clones, parental BJ and HUES9 ES cell controls. All iPS cell clones analyzed by RNA-seq showed unsupervised hierarchical clustering and expression signatures characteristic of human HUES9 ES cells that were highly divergent from parental human fibroblasts.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38265
GSE38393	Hi-seq 2000 sequencing facilitates quantitative analysis of transcriptomes in LNCaP cells with or without SiGATA2 treatment.	We obtained 1,367 GATA2 up-regulated and 759 GATA2 down-regulated genes (p< 0.001).	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38393
GSE38541	Human PA-1 cells treated with scrambled or specific ASOs	We describe the discovery of sno-lncRNAs, a class of nuclear-enriched intron-derived long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) that are processed on both ends by the snoRNA machinery. During exonucleolytic trimming, the sequences between the snoRNAs are not degraded, leading to the accumulation of lncRNAs flanked by snoRNA sequences but lacking 5' caps and 3' poly(A) tails. Such RNAs are widely expressed in cells and tissues and can be produced by either box C/D or box H/ACA snoRNAs. Importantly, the genomic region encoding one abundant class of sno-lncRNAs (15q11-q13) is specifically deleted in Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS). The PWS region sno-lncRNAs do not colocalize with nucleoli or Cajal bodies, but rather accumulate near their sites of synthesis. These sno-lncRNAs associate strongly with Fox family splicing regulators and alter patterns of splicing. These results thus implicate a previously unannotated class of lncRNAs in the molecular pathogenesis of PWS.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38541
GSE38770	Histone variant H2A.Bbd is associated with active transcription and mRNA processing in human cells [RNA-Seq]	Variation in chromatin composition and organization often reflects differences in genome function. Histone variants, for example, replace canonical histones to contribute to regulation of numerous nuclear processes including transcription, DNA repair and chromosome segregation. Here we focus on H2A.Bbd, a rapidly evolving variant found in mammals but not in invertebrates. We report that in human cells, nucleosomes bearing H2A.Bbd form unconventional chromatin structures enriched within actively transcribed genes and characterized by shorter DNA protection and nucleosome spacing. Analysis of transcriptional profiles from cells depleted for H2A.Bbd demonstrated widespread changes in gene expression with a net down-regulation of transcription and disruption of normal mRNA splicing patterns. In particular, we observed changes in exon inclusion rates and increased presence of intronic sequences in mRNA products upon H2A.Bbd depletion. Taken together, our results indicate that H2A.Bbd is involved in formation of a specific chromatin structure that facilitates both transcription and initial mRNA processing.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38770
GSE38945	Gene expression of three hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines with different organ-tropism.	In this study we investigated the gene expression profiling in three HCC cell lines with different organ-tropism.The parent cell line has low metastasis ability in nude mice model. Subclone 1 has higher metastasis ability specific to lung, and subclone 2 has dual metastasis ability to lung and celiac lymph node. We aimed to explore differentially expressed genes involved in process of HCC metastasis and organ-specific metastasis, and identify their biological functions.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE38945
GSE39081	Genetically-driven target tissue over-expression of CD40: A novel mechanism in autoimmune disease	The CD40 gene, an important immune regulatory gene, is also expressed and functional on non-myeloid derived cells, many of which are targets for tissue specific autoimmune diseases, including d thyroid follicular cells in Graves disease (GD). Whether target tissue CD40 expression plays a role in autoimmune disease etiology has yet to be determined. Here we show for the first time, that target-tissue over-expression of CD40 plays a key role in the etiology of autoimmunity. Using a murine model of GD, we demonstrated that thyroidal CD40 over-expression augmented the production of thyroid specific antibodies, resulting in more severe experimental autoimmune Graves disease (EAGD), whereas deletion of thyroidal CD40 suppressed disease. Using transcriptome and immune-pathway analyses we showed that in both EAGD mouse thyroids and human primary thyrocytes, CD40 mediates this effect by activating downstream cytokines and chemokines, most notably IL-6. To translate these findings into therapy, we blocked IL-6 during EAGD induction in the setting of thyroidal CD40 over-expression, and showed decreased levels of TSHR stimulating antibodies and frequency of disease. We conclude that target tissue over-expression of CD40 plays a key role in the etiology of organ specific autoimmune disease.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39081
GSE39086	DGCR8 HITS-CLIP reveals novel functions for the Microprocessor (CLIP-seq)	The Drosha-DGCR8 complex (Microprocessor) is required for microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis. DGCR8 contains two double-stranded RNA binding motifs that recognize the RNA substrate, whereas Drosha functions as the endonuclease. We have used high-throughput sequencing of RNAs isolated by crosslinking immunoprecipitation (HITS-CLIP) to identify endogenous RNA targets of DGCR8 in mammalian cells. Unexpectedly, miRNAs were not the most abundant targets. DGCR8-bound RNAs comprised several hundred mRNAs as well as snoRNAs and long non-coding RNAs. We found that DGCR8 together with Drosha controls the abundance of several mRNAs, as well as long non-coding RNAs, such as MALAT-1. By contrast, the DGCR8-mediated cleavage of snoRNAs is independent of Drosha, suggesting the involvement of DGCR8 in cellular complexes with other endonucleases. Interestingly, binding of DGCR8 to cassette exons, acts as a novel mechanism to regulate the relative abundance of alternatively spliced isoforms. Collectively, these data provide new insights in the complex role of DGCR8 in controlling the fate of several classes of RNAs.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39086
GSE39118	RNA-Seq and expression data from human adipose tissue	This SuperSeries is composed of the SubSeries listed below.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39118
GSE39121	Lung adenocarcinoma metastasis is suppressed by the alveolar lineage transcription factors GATA6 and HOPX.	Molecular programs that mediate normal cell differentiation are required for oncogenesis and tumor cell survival in certain cancers. How cell-lineage-restricted genes specifically influence metastasis is poorly defined. In lung cancers, we uncovered a transcriptional program that is preferentially associated with distal airway epithelial differentiation and lung adenocarcinoma (ADC) progression. This program is regulated in part by the lineage transcription factors GATA6 and HOPX. These factors can cooperatively limit the metastatic competence of ADC cells, by modulating overlapping alveolar differentiation and invasogenic target genes. Thus, GATA6 and HOPX are critical nodes in a lineage-selective pathway that directly links effectors of airway epithelial specification to the inhibition of metastasis in the lung ADC subtype.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39121
GSE39187	Embedding siRNA sequences targeting Apolipoprotein B100 in shRNA and miRNA scaffolds results in differential processing and in vivo efficacy	Purpose: Identical predicted small interfering RNA (siRNA) sequences targeting Apolipoprotein B100 (siApoB) were embedded in shRNA (shApoB) or miRNA (miApoB) scaffolds and a direct compariso of the possible aspecific off-target effects in vivo was performed. Next generation sequencing (NGS) of small RNAs originating from shApoB- or miApoB-transfected cells revealed substantial differences in processing, resulting in different siApoB length, 5 and 3 cleavage sites and abundance of the guide or passenger strands. Methods [1]: Total liver RNA sequencing libraries for the Illumina sequencing platform were generated using high-quality total RNA as input and the Illumina TrueSeq RNA v2 Sample preparation kit according to the manufacturers protocol. Each read file (sample), in the FASTQ format, was individually aligned against the mouse reference genome (15 May 2012 NCBI build 38.1) using CLC Bio-Genomic Workbench and the expression abundance for each gene (RPKM) was calculated according to Montazavi et al. Result [1]s: Based on our previous observations that shApoB and miApoB are differentially processed and that miApoB has a different passenger, we checked for possible aspecific off-target effects in vivo. NGS liver transcriptome analysis was performed 8 weeks p.i. for animals injected with 1x1011 gc AAV encoding shScr, shApoB, miScr and miApoB. We investigated whether shApoB and miApoB processing differences translate into differences in gene expression in injected animals. A total number of 266 genes were significantly changing (p <0,05) in miApoB-injected mice compared to miScr. Additionally 106 genes were found to be significantly up or down-regulated in the shApoB mice compared to shScr. Off-target predictions using Smith-Waterman algorithm for the most abundant guide and passenger strand variants were performed to investigate if any of the observed changes results from aspecific interactions. None of the changing genes had predicted targets for the guide or passenger strands of shApoB or miApoB. Conclusions [1]: An important observation is that none of the changes in gene expression in AAV-miApoB and AAV-shApoB can be explained by possible aspecific down-regulation of non-target transcripts. Methods [2]: For NGS analysis cells were transfected with 4 g shApoB- or miApoB-expression plasmids using Lipofectamine 2000 reagent and total RNA was isolated from cells 48 hr post-transfection using Trizol (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) according to the manufacturers protocol. Total RNA sequencing libraries for the Illumina sequencing platform were generated using high-quality total RNA as input and the Illumina TrueSeq RNA v2 Sample preparation kit according to the manufacturers protocol. The NGS small RNA raw data set was analyzed using the CLC_bio genomic workbench (CLC Bio, Aarhus, Denmark). The obtained reads were adaptor-trimmed, which decreased the average read size from ~36bp to ~25bp. The custom adapter sequenced used for trimming all the bases extending 5 was: GTGACTGGAGTTCC-TTGGCACCCGAGAATTCCA. All reads containing ambiguity N symbols, reads shorter than 15 nt, longer than 55 nt in length and reads represented less than 10 times were discarded. Next, both data sets from shApoB and miApoB samples were grouped based on the match to the reference sequence and the obtained unique small RNAs were aligned to the sequence of pre-miApoB: GATCCTGGAGGCTTGC-TGAAGGCTGTATGCTGATGGACAGGTCAATCAATCTTGTTTTGGCCACTGACTGACAAGATTGAGACCTGTCCATCAGGACACAAGGCCTGTTACTAGCACTCACATGGAACAAATGGCCCAGATCTGGCCGCAG or shApoB: GATCCCCGATTGATTGACCTGTCCATTTCAAGAGAATGGACAGGTCAATCAATC-TTTTTCAGCTT sequence, respectively. To relatively represent the expression counts for the small RNAs obtained in the experiment, reads per million (rpm) or percentage of reads based on the total number of reads matching the reference shApoB or miApoB sequence were calculated Results [2]: The small RNAs were aligned against their reference sequence resulting in 541.939 reads matching shApoB and 1.525.211 reads matching miApoB (Fig S1 and S2). Analysis of the length distribution of the reads indicated that siApoB guide strand originating from shApoB ranged between 19 and 23 nt, with the most abundant one being 21 nt-long. Surprisingly, siApoB guide from miApoB scaffold ranged from 23 to 25 nt with the 24 nt-long strand being the predominant variant. This finding was rather unexpected considering that the predicted guide strand of siApoB was 21 nt long for both shApoB and miApoB scaffolds. Analysis of the processed 5 ends of the siApoB guide strand indicated that most of the reads matched position +1 relative to the predicted cleavage site for shApoB, while all the reads matched position 0 for miApoB. The 3 ends of the siApoB guide strand had a more heterogeneous pattern and ranged from -1 to +3 for shApoB and +1 to +4 for miApoB. Next, we looked at the sequence distribution and percentage of reads for both the guide and passenger siApoB strands originating from the shApoB and miApoB scaffolds. A substantial difference between the two is that the guide from shApoB is in the 3 arm and hence Dicer or other endonuclease defines the cleavage position while the guide is present in the 5 arm of miApoB, where Drosha defines the cleavage. Thus, defining the length and exact cleavage position for the guide and passenger strands is very important since even single nucleotide differences may result in significant changes in the predicted targets of the siRNAs. Moreover, the passenger siRNA* strand, if not degraded efficiently, may bind to unanticipated targets and cause off-target effects. As expected, 44.4%% of the reads originating from shApoB matched the siApoB guide strand but processing was shifted at position +1 (Fig. 2d, upper panel). Surprisingly only 12.1%% of the reads matched perfectly the predicted siApoB guide strand of 21 nt and starting at position 0. The reads matching the passenger siApoB* strand were represented in much lower percentage with the predominant one being only 5.3%%. Analysis of the guide strand from the siApoB reads originating from the miApoB scaffold indicated that they all started at the predicted cleavage site. Surprisingly, the predominant, 22.3%% of reads were 24 nt-long. Furthermore 5.1%% reads were 23 nt- and 1.9%% were 25 nt-long. A substantial number of 62%% of the reads was found matching the passenger siApoB* strand and ranged between 20 and 22 nt in length. In conclusion, both shApoB and miApoB scaffolds did not yield the predicted siApoB guide or siApoB* passenger sequences after processing from the cellular RNAi machinery. The guide from miApoB was cleaved much more precisely by Drosha at its 5 end compared to shApoB that gave more heterogeneous pools of sequences following processing. Conclusions[2]: An unexpected discovery in the current study was that siRNA processing by the cellular RNAi machinery did not follow the generally accepted and described cleavage sites for both molecules shApoB and miApoB siApoB guide strand originating from the shApoB scaffold was more heterogeneous in cleavage sites and length compared to the product originating from the miApoB scaffold. Most likely, differential cleavage mechanism defined the heterogeneity in the guide and passenger strands. Additionally, shRNAs with 19 bp stem or less are not necessarily recognized by Dicer and maybe be processed differently. The heterogeneity seen with the shApoB can also be explained by the potential for 2 or 3 uridines to be added following termination of pol III transcription. The main pool of guide sequences originating from miApoB was 24 nt-long although we used the scaffold of cellular pri-mir-155 that produces a 23 nt mature miRNA. However, a 24 nt-long siApoB sequence did not compromise efficacy because when placed in the miApoB scaffold, the ApoB target sequence was extended at the 3 end with 4 nt until the loop. Another important observation is that the siApoB*	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39187
GSE39436	MicroRNA profiling and discovery by deep sequencing cord blood from Down syndrome fetuses	To investigate the expression characteristic of miRNAs during the development of Down syndrome (DS) fetuses and to identify whether another miRNA gene resides in the Hsa21, we employed high-throughput Solexa sequencing technology to comprehensively characterize the miRNA expression profiles of both DS and normal fetal cord blood mononuclear cells (CBMCs). In total, 200 of 395 identified miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed (fold change > 2.0 and P-value < 0.001) and 2 of 181 candidate novel miRNAs were identified as residing within the 'Down syndrome critical region' of human chromosome 21 (chr21q22.2-22.3). Additionally, 7 of 14 Hsa21-derived miRNAs genes were detected that three miRNAs (hsa-miR-802, miR-3648, miR-3687) were up-regulated more than 50%% and four miRNAs (hsa-miR-99a, let-7c, miR-125b-2, miR-155) were down-regulated in the DS fetal CBMCs compared with the control. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that abnormally expressed miRNAs were major associated with the regulation of transcription, gene expression, cellular biosynthetic process, macromolecule biosynthetic process and nucleic acid metabolic process. The data obtained in our study provides a considerable insight into understanding the expression characteristic of miRNAs in the DS fetal hemopoietic system and the differentially expressed miRNAs may be involved in the hemopoietic abnormalities and the immune defects of DS fetus and newborns.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39436
GSE39682	FMR1 targets distinct mRNA sequence elements to regulate protein expression [PAR-CLIP]	Fragile-X Syndrome (FXS) is a multi-organ disease leading to mental retardation, macro-orchidism in males, and premature ovarian insufficiency in female carriers. FXS is also a prominent monogenic disease associated with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). FXS is typically caused by the loss of FRAGILE X-MENTAL RETARDATION 1 (FMR1) expression, which encodes for the RNA-binding protein (RBP), FMR1 (or FMRP). We report the discovery of the RNA recognition elements (RREs), binding sites, and mRNA targets for wild-type and I304N mutant FMRP isoforms as well as its paralogs, FXR1 and FXR2. RRE frequency, ratio, and distribution determine target mRNA association with FMRP. Among highly-enriched targets, we identified many genes involved in ASD and demonstrate that FMRP can affect their protein levels in cell culture, mice, and human brain. Unexpectedly, we discovered that these targets are also dysregulated in Fmr1-/- mouse ovaries, showing signs of premature follicular overdevelopment. These results indicate that FMRP targets shared signaling pathways across different cellular contexts. As it is become increasingly appreciated that signaling pathways are important to FXS and ASD, our results here provide an invaluable molecular guide towards the pursuit of novel therapeutic targets for these devastating neurological disorders.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39682
GSE39748	Argonaute proteins couple chromatin silencing to alternative splicing (RNA IP-Seq)	While Argonaute (AGO) proteins play a major role in transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) in many organisms, their role in the nucleus of somatic mammalian cells remains elusive. Here, we have purified AGO1 and AGO2 chromatin-embedded complexes, and found these proteins associated with previously described partners, but also with chromatin modifiers and, rather unexpectedly, with different splicing factors. Using the CD44 gene as a model for alternative splicing, we show that both AGO1 and AGO2 are required for Protein Kinase C (PKC)-dependent variant exon inclusion. AGO proteins facilitate the spliceosome recruitment and modulate the elongation rate of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). The recruitment of AGO proteins to CD44 transcribed region is dependent on both the endonuclease Dicer and the chromodomain-containing protein HP1g, and results in locally increased levels of histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9) methylation on variant exons. Genome wide analysis of splicing in either AGO2 or Dicer null cells showed that the two proteins have similar effects on many splicing events. Finally, sRNAs associated with nuclear AGO2 are mostly in sense orientation relative to protein-coding genes, supporting a role for intragenic antisense non-coding RNAs in the recruitment AGO and splicing factors. Together, our data demonstrate for the first time that the endogenous RNAi pathway is involved in alternative splicing decisions, unravelling a new model in which AGO proteins couple RNAPII elongation and chromatin modification.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39748
GSE39757	Transcriptomic analysis of XIST+ and XIST- hES cells	Purpose: Compare the transcriptome of homogeneous XIST+ and XIST- hES cell populations. Methods: We isolated homogeneous XIST+ and XIST- cell populations. The XIST+ cells correspond to cells with a XIST cloud and one ATRX pinpoint. The XIST- cells correspond to cells with no XIST cloud and one ATRX pinpoint. Results: We took advantage of the clonal pattern of X-chromosome inactivation in H9 cells and analyzed the data in an allelic manner. By comparing the RNA-Seq data with known H9 SNPs, we identified genomic positions which were relaxed from XCI in XIST- cells compared to XIST+ cells. Conclusions: Genic as well as unannotated transcripts are massively relaxed from XCI in H9 cells when XIST expression is lost, however, this reactivation is only partial and a large region around the centromere is protected from relaxation of silencing.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39757
GSE39776	Examination of gene expression in human placenta using RNA-seq	As genome-scale DNA methylation sequencing technologies have improved it has become apparent that tissue-specific methylation can occur not only at promoters, enhancers, and CpG islands but also over larger genomic regions. In most human tissues, the vast majority of the genome is highly methylated (>70%%). However, genomic sequencing of bisulfite-treated DNA (MethylC-seq) has revealed large partially methylated domains (PMDs) in some human cell lines. However, to date only cultured cells and some cancers have shown evidence for PMDs, suggesting that PMDs may not be observed in normal human tissues. Here we performed MethylC-seq in a set of human tissues and found that full-term human placenta shows clear evidence of PMDs.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39776
GSE39821	RNA-Seq of cKIT+ sorted cells from 16-16.5 week old fetal testes and ovaries and RNA-Seq of TRA-1-60+ H1 hESCs	Generation of research quality, clinically relevant cell types in vitro from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) requires detailed understanding of the equivalent cell types in humans. Here we analyzed 130 human fetal samples at 6-20 weeks of development and identified the stages in which human cKIT+ primordial germ cells (PGCs), the precursors of gametes, undergo whole genome epigenetic reprogramming and ultimately initiation of imprint erasure with loss of both 5mC and 5-hydroxy-mC at differentially methylated regions. Using five alternate in vitro differentiation strategies combined with a single-cell microfluidic analysis, high throughput RNA sequencing and a bona fide human cKIT+ PGC signature, we show that hPSC differentiation generates a rare cKIT+ PGC subtype found in both the human fetal gonad and mouse embryo. Taken together, our study creates a resource of human germ line ontogeny that is absolutely essential for future studies aimed at interpreting in vitro differentiation of the human germ line.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE39821
GSE40050	Persistent androgen receptor-mediated transcription in castration-resistant prostate cancer under androgen-deprived conditions	The androgen receptor (AR) is a ligand-inducible transcription factor that mediates androgen action in target tissues. Upon ligand binding, the AR binds to thousands of genomic loci and activates a cell-type specific gene program. Prostate cancer growth and progression depend on androgen-induced AR signalling. Treatment of advanced prostate cancer through medical or surgical castration leads to initial response and durable remission, but resistance inevitably develops. In castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), AR activity remains critical for tumor growth despite androgen deprivation. While previous studies have focused on ligand-dependent AR signalling, in this study we explore AR function under the androgen-deprived conditions characteristic of CRPC. Our data demonstrate that the AR persistently occupies a distinct set of genomic loci after androgen deprivation in CRPC. These androgen-independent AR occupied regions have constitutively open chromatin structures that lack the canonical androgen response element and are independent of FoxA1, a transcription factor involved in ligand-dependent AR targeting. Many AR binding events occur at proximal promoters, which can act as enhancers to augment transcriptional activities of other promoters through DNA looping. We further show that androgen-independent AR binding directs a distinct gene expression program in CRPC, which is necessary for the growth of CRPC after androgen withdrawal.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40050
GSE40111	Stochastic genome - nuclear lamina contacts are linked to histone H3K9 dimethylation (RNA-seq data)	The nuclear lamina (NL) interacts with hundreds of large genomic regions termed lamina-associated domains (LADs). The dynamics of these interactions and the relation to epigenetic modifications are poorly understood. We visualized the fate of LADs in single cells using a novel 'molecular contact memory' approach. In each interphase nucleus, only ~30%% of LADs are positioned at the periphery; these LADs are in intermittent molecular contact with the NL but remain constrained to the periphery. Upon mitosis, LAD positioning is not detectably inherited but instead is stochastically reshuffled. Contact of individual LADs with the NL correlates with their degree of H3K9 dimethylation in single cells, and inactivation of the H3K9 methyltransferase G9a reduces the NL contact frequencies. These results indicate that nuclear positioning and histone modification of LADs are both stochastic yet linked in single cells. Collectively, these results highlight principles of the dynamic spatial architecture of chromosomes.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40111
GSE40114	Histone acetylation regulates intracellular pH	Differences in global levels of histone acetylation occur in normal and cancer cells, although the reason cells regulate these levels has remained unclear. Here we demonstrate a role for histone acetylation in regulating intracellular pH (pHi). As pHi decreases, histones are globally deacetylated by histone deacetylases (HDACs) and the released acetate anions are co-exported with protons out of the cell by monocarboxylate transporters (MCTs), preventing further reductions in pHi. Conversely, global histone acetylation increases at more alkaline pHi, such as when resting cells are induced to proliferate. Inhibition of HDACs or MCTs decreases acetate export and lowers pHi, particularly compromising pHi maintenance in acidic environments. Global deacetylation at low pH is reflected at a genomic level by decreased abundance and extensive redistribution of acetylation at promoters and intergenic regions. Thus acetylation of chromatin functions as a rheostat to regulate pHi with important implications for therapeutic use of HDAC inhibitors.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40114
GSE40132	ALKBH5 is a New Mammalian RNA Demethylase	N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most prevalent internal modification of messenger RNA (mRNA) in higher eukaryotes. Here we report ALKBH5 as a new mammalian demethylase that oxidatively removes the m6A modification in mRNA in vitro and inside cells. This demethylation activity of ALKBH5 significantly affects mRNA export and RNA metabolism as well as the assembly of mRNA processing factors in nuclear speckles. Alkbh5-deficient male mice are characterized by impaired fertility resulting from apoptosis that affects meiotic metaphase-stage spermatocytes. In accordance with this defect, we have identified in mouse testes 1552 differentially expressed genes which cover broad functional categories and include spermatogenesis-related mRNAs involved in the p53 functional interaction network. We show that Alkbh5-deficiency impacts the expression levels of some of these mRNAs, supporting the observed phenotype. The discovery of this new RNA demethylase strongly suggests that the reversible m6A modification plays fundamental and broad functions in mammalian cells.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40132
GSE40137	Cleavage Factor Im as a key regulator of 3 UTR length	In eukaryotes, the 3' ends of RNA polymerase II-generated transcripts are made in the majority of cases by site-specific endonucleolytic cleavage, followed by the addition of a poly(A) tail. By alternative polyadenylation, a gene can give rise to multiple mRNA isoforms that differ in the length of their 3' UTRs and hence in their susceptibility to post-transcriptional regulatory factors such as microRNAs. A series of recently conducted high-throughput studies of poly(A) site usage revealed an extensive tissue-specific control of 3 UTR length and drastic changes in 3 UTR length of mRNAs upon induction of proliferation in resting cells. To understand the dynamics of polyadenylation site usage, we recently identified binding sites of the major pre-mRNA 3 end processing factors - cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF), cleavage stimulation factor (CstF), and cleavage factor Im (CF Im) - and mapped cleaved polyadenylation sites in HEK293 cells. Our present study extends previous findings on the role of CF Im in alternative polyadenylation and reveals that subunits of the CF Im complex generally control 3 UTR length. More specifically, we demonstrate that the loss-of-function of CF Im68 and CF Im25 but not of CF Im59 leads to a transcriptome-wide increase of the use of proximal polyadenylation sites.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40137
GSE40199	Whole Genome sequencing of a normal karyotype AML cell line	Normal Karyotype acute myeloid leukemia (NK-AML) represents approximately 50%% of all cases of AML which patients develop. Most AML cell lines are highly abnormal and therefore not good models for investigating NK-AML biology a novel AML cell line, CG-SH, was recently estabished and here we characterize the gene expression and mutations present through high-throughput sequencing of RNA and genomic DNA using a HiSeq 2000	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40199
GSE40218	Gene Expression Changes in a Tumor Xenograft by a Py-Im Polyamide	Gene regulation by DNA binding small molecules could have important therapeutic applications. This study reports the investigation of a DNA-binding pyrrole-imidazole polyamide targeted to bind the DNA sequence 5-WGGWWW-3 with reference to its potency in a subcutaneous xenograft tumor model. The molecule is capable of trafficking to the tumor site following subcutaneous injection and modulates transcription of select genes in vivo. A FITC-labeled analogue of this polyamide can be detected in tumor-derived cells by confocal microscopy. RNA deep sequencing (RNA-seq) of tumor tissue allowed the identification of further affected genes, a representative panel of which were interrogated by qRT-PCR and correlated with cell culture expression levels.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40218
GSE40228	mRNA profiles following TUT knock-down in HeLa	The precise control of microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis is important for various cellular functions, and its dysregulation is often associated with human diseases. We previously reported that Terminal uridylyl transferase 4 (TUT4) down-regulates let-7 miRNA biogenesis by oligo-uridylating let-7 precursor (pre-let-7) in mouse embryonic stem cells and that a pluripotency marker Lin28 promotes a processivity of TUT4. Here we find that TUT4 positively controls let-7 biogenesis by adding a uridine residue to the 3 end of pre-let-7 in the absence of Lin28. Such mono-uridylation enhances Dicer processing by generating an optimal end structure of pre-let-7 for Dicer recognition and may protect pre-miRNA from trimming. Moreover, TUT7, TUT4 and TUT2 redundantly regulate pre-let-7 processing and simultaneous knock down of these TUTs leads to the decrease of mature let-7 and the accumulation of pre-let-7 in cells. This study provides a novel regulation mechanism of miRNA biogenesis, which may function in development and tumorigenesis.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40228
GSE40243	Hydroxymethylation at gene regulatory regions directs stem cell commitment during erythropoiesis	CD34 positive hematopoietic stem cells were differentiated into erythroid lineage. Next generation sequencing (NGS) of 5hmC affinity pulldown and RNAseq were performed in four time point of different stages of erythroid differentiation.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40243
GSE40291	Efficient direct reprogramming of c-Kit mature amniotic cells into endothelial cells by ETS factors and TGF suppression	ETS transcription factors ETV2, FLI1 and ERG1 specify pluripotent stem cells into endothelial cells (PSC-ECs). However, these PSC-ECs are unstable and often drift towards non-vascular cell fates. We show that human mid-gestation c-Kit- lineage-committed amniotic cells (ACs) can be reprogrammed into induced vascular endothelial cells (rAC-VECs). Transient ETV2 expression in ACs generated immature iVECs, while co-expression with FLI1/ERG1 endowed rAC-VECs with a vascular repertoire and morphology matching mature ECs. Brief TGFb-inhibition functionalizes VEGFR2 signaling, augmenting specification of ACs into rAC-VECs. Genome-wide transcriptional analyses showed that rAC-VECs are similar to adult ECs in which vascular-specific genes are expressed and non-vascular genes are silenced. Functionally, rAC-VECs form stable vasculature in Matrigel plugs and regenerating livers. Thus, short-term ETV2 expression and TGFb-inhibition along with constitutive ERG1/FLI1 co-expression reprogram mature ACs into generic rAC-VECs with clinical-scale expansion potential. Public banking of HLA-typed rAC-VECs would establish a vascular inventory for treatment of genetically diverse disorders.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40291
GSE40524	Unprecedented alternative splicing and 3 Mb of novel transcribed sequence leads to significant transcript diversity in the transcriptome of the human retina	The mRNA repertoire is specific to a given tissue type. This specificity, whether it is in the levels of gene expression or the splicing pattern of the transcripts, is important to study to increase our general knowledge of transcription and alternative splicing, as well as to identify novel coding sequence that can be important for elucidating the mechanisms of disease. We have performed RNA-Seq on three normal human retinal samples and have found a profound level of novel alternative splicing including novel exons, exon skipping, and 3 and 5 alternate splice sites. Additionally, we have identified hundreds of novel genes. With so many novel splicing events identified in the retinal transcriptome, we set out to determine if these novel features were indeed real. We developed a high throughput capture set to target 14,696 of the novel features. We found that 99%% of the novel features do validate, including those initially detected at a depth of coverage as low as one. These results confirm that the transcripts expressed in the retina are much more diverse than previously identified. The complete human retinal transcriptome described here will be useful for investigators studying multiple aspects of retinal biology and disease.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40524
GSE40548			
GSE40632	Genome-wide analysis of the Integrator complex (HTS)	We investigated the genomic occupancy of INTS11, in normal condition and after stimulation of EGF. Total RNAPII was profiled in the presence or absence of INTS11, along with the Super Elongation Complex proteins AFF4 and ELL2. Additionally, we extensively examined the transcriptional response to EGF, before and after depletion of INTS11, using RNA-seq on ribosome-depleted total RNA and Global Run-on sequencing (GRO-seq).	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40632
GSE40651	Divergent roles of ALS-linked proteins FUS/TLS and TDP-43 intersect in processing long pre-mRNAs (CLIP-Seq)	FUS/TLS and TDP-43 are RNA/DNA-binding proteins integrally involved in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontal temporal dementia. FUS/TLS is shown to bind RNAs from >5,500 genes in mouse and human brain, primarily through a GUGGU binding motif. A characteristic sawtooth-like binding pattern is identified, supporting co-transcriptional deposition of FUS/TLS. Depletion of FUS/TLS from the adult nervous system is shown to alter levels or splicing of >970 mRNAs, most of which are distinct from the RNAs whose maturation is dependent on TDP-43. Nonetheless, only 55 RNAs are reduced upon depletion of either TDP-43 or FUS/TLS from mouse brain and human neurons differentiated from pluripotent stem cells, including mRNAs transcribed from genes with exceptionally long introns and that encode proteins essential for neuronal integrity. A subset of these is significantly lowered in FUS/TLSR521G and TDP-43G298S mutant fibroblasts and in TDP-43 aggregate-containing motor neurons in sporadic ALS, evidence pointing to a common loss-of-function pathway as one component underlying motor neuron death from misregulation of TDP-43 or FUS/TLS.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40651
GSE40705	Comprehensive comparative analysis of RNA sequencing methods for degraded or low input samples	RNA-Seq is an effective method to study the transcriptome, but can be difficult to apply to scarce or degraded RNA from fixed clinical samples, rare cell populations, or cadavers. Recent studies have proposed several methods for RNA-Seq of low quality and/or low quantity samples, but their relative merits have not been systematically analyzed. Here, we compare five such methods using a comprehensive set of metrics, relevant to applications such as transcriptome annotation, transcript discovery, and gene expression. Using a single human RNA sample, we constructed and deeply sequenced 10 libraries with these methods and two control libraries. We find that the RNase H method performed best for low quality RNA, and can even effectively replace oligo (dT) based methods for standard RNA-Seq. SMART and NuGEN had distinct strengths for low quantity RNA. Our analysis allows biologists to select the most suitable methods and provides a benchmark for future method development.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40705
GSE40710	aSyn polyA-RNAseq in PD and unaffected cortical brain samples	We sought to more precisely characterize the different alpha-synuclein (aSyn) 3UTR mRNA species in normal and PD human brain. High-throughput, whole-transcriptome sequencing of the 3UTR ends of polyadenylated mRNA transcripts (termed pA-RNAseq; see Methods) was performed on a cohort of 17 unaffected and 17 PD cerebral cortical tissue samples. This revealed 5 aSyn 3UTR isoforms, with lengths of 290, 480, 560, 1070 and 2520 nt. Of these, the 560 nt and 2520 nt forms were predominant. The existence and relative preponderance of these species was further confirmed by Northern Blot. We next hypothesized, that aSyn 3UTR selection might be altered in PD. Comparison of pA-RNAseq profiles from PD and unaffected cerebral cortex samples revealed an increase in the preponderance of the long 3UTR species (>560 nt) relative to shorter species (<560 nt). Such a relative increase in aSynL was confirmed by Quantitative real-time RT-PCR (rt-qPCR) and appeared specific for PD, as the increase was also observed by comparison to RNA from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patient samples. We note that the modified aSyn 3UTR selection associated with PD patient tissue was detected in cerebral cortex tissue, which typically harbors pathological evidence of the disease process without frank cell loss; thus, this phenotype is unlikely to be a secondary consequence of neurodegeneration.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40710
GSE40778	CLIP-seq of eIF4AIII reveals transcriptome-wide mapping of the human exon junction complex	The exon junction complex (EJC) is a central effector of mRNAs fate, linking nuclear processing to mRNA transport, translation and surveillance. Little is known about its transcriptome-wide targets. We used high-throughput sequencing after crosslinking and immunoprecipitation (HITS-CLIP) in human cells to identify the binding sites of the DEAD-box helicase eIF4AIII, an EJC core component. CLIP reads form peaks mainly located in spliced mRNAs. Most expressed exons harbour peaks equally distributed between the canonical EJC region 24 nucleotides upstream of exonic junctions and other non-canonical regions. Unexpectedly, both are preferentially associated to unstructured and purine-rich sequences containing the motif GAAGA, a potential binding site of EJC-associated factors. Therefore, EJC positions vary spatially and quantitatively between exons. This transcriptome-wide mapping of human eIF4AIII reveals unanticipated aspects of the EJC and broadens its potential impact on post-transcriptional regulation.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40778
GSE40783	Revisiting Global Gene Expression Analysis (RNA-Seq)	Gene expression analysis is a widely used and powerful method for investigating the transcriptional behavior of biological systems, for classifying cell states in disease and for many other purposes. Recent studies indicate that common assumptions currently embedded in experimental and analytical practices can lead to misinterpretation of global gene expression data. We discuss these assumptions and describe solutions that should minimize erroneous interpretation of gene expression data from multiple analysis platforms.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40783
GSE40819	Differences in miRNA Detection Levels are Technology and Sequence Dependent [NGS]	We undertook an integrative technological approach to compare miRNA detection capability of three high-throughput commercial platforms.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40819
GSE40859	Transcriptome-wide analyses of CstF64-RNA interactions in global regulation of mRNA alternative polyadenylation	We mapped CstF64-RNA interactions at the transcriptome level and studied CstF64-mediated regulation of global mRNA alternative polyadenylation by using iCLIP-seq and direct RNA sequencing analyses.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE40859
GSE41009	Divergent transcription of lncRNA/mRNA gene pairs in embryonic stem cells	Many long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) species have been identified in mammalian cells, but the genomic origin, regulation and function of these molecules in individual cell types is poorly understood. We have generated comprehensive catalogs of lncRNA species expressed in human and murine embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and mapped their genomic origin. A surprisingly large fraction of these transcripts (>60%%) originate from divergent transcription at promoters of active protein-coding genes. The divergently transcribed lncRNA/mRNA gene pairs exhibit coordinated changes in transcription when ESCs are differentiated into endoderm. A significant number of the divergently transcribed lncRNAs/mRNA pairs are conserved between human and mouse ESCs. Disruption of promoter-associated lncRNA orthologs in a zebrafish model of early development causes gross developmental defects. Our results reveal that transcription of most lncRNA genes is coordinated with transcription of protein-coding genes and that these lncRNAs have roles in early development.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE41009
GSE41166	A dynamic H3K27ac signature defines VEGF-regulated endothelial enhancers	Histone modifications are now well-established regulators of transcriptional programs that distinguish distinct cell states. However, the kinetics of histone modification and their role in mediating rapid, signal-responsive changes in gene expression have been little studied on a genome-wide scale. Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF), a major regulator of angiogenesis, rapidly triggers changes in transcriptional activity of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Here we used chromatin immunoprecipitation and high throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) to measure genome-wide changes in histone H3 acetylation at lysine 27 (H3K27ac), a marker of active enhancers {Kharchenko et al., 2011, Nature, 471, 480-5;Zentner et al., 2011, Genome Res, 21, 1273-83;Rada-Iglesias et al., 2011, Nature, 470, 279-83; Creyghton et al., 2010, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, 107, 21931-6 }, after 0, 1, 4, and 12 hours of VEGF stimulation. We show that sites with greatest H3K27ac changes were associated tightly with p300, a histone acetyltransferase. This dynamic H3K27ac signature defined transcriptional elements that are functionally linked to angiogenesis, participate in rapid VEGF-stimulated changes in chromatin conformation, and mediate VEGF-induced transcriptional responses. Dynamic H3K27ac deposition required p300 activity and did not involve altered nucleosome occupancy. Our results demonstrate that capture of dynamic changes in H3K27ac provides a new approach to define the activity of functional genomic elements and implicate epigenetic modifications in rapid signal-responsive transcriptional regulation.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE41166
GSE41586	Expression data for HT29 cells treated with 5-aza-deoxy-cytidine [RNA-Seq]	The RNA samples from HT-29 (ATCC) colon cancer cell line were reverse transcribed to build cDNA libraries and categorized into 3 groups with different concentrations of 5-aza-deoxy-cytidine (5-Aza); in each group three replicative 150 mm cultures were treated with: 1) dimethyl sulfoxide (vehicle alone, 0 M 5-Aza); 2) 5M 5-Aza and 3) 10 M 5-Aza; for five days. This experiment was also performed parallel on a commercial Affymetrix microarray [GSE41364] and the aim of the study was to compare the two platforms on gene expression measurements and differentially expressed gene (DEG) detection. The results showed a strong correlation between the two platforms, yet it also confirmed the existence of fixed and proportional biases on the gene expression measurements between microarray and RNA-Seq. The DEG analysis indicated the relative superiority of DESeq method in terms of its performance; high consistency was confirmed between DESeq, baySeq methods from RNA-Seq and SAM/eBayes from microarray data.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE41586
GSE41616	Identification of Novel Molecular Markers through Transcriptomic Analysis in Human Fetal and Adult Corneal Endothelial Cells	Corneal endothelium is composed of a monolayer of corneal endothelial cells (CECs) in the inner layer of cornea, which is essential for maintaining corneal transparency. In order to better characterize CECs in different developmental stages, we profiled mRNA transcriptomes in human fetal and adult corneal endothelium with the goal to identify novel molecular markers in these cells. By comparing CECs with 12 other types of tissues, we identified 245 and 284 signature genes that are highly expressed in fetal and adult CECs, respectively. Functionally, these genes are characteristic of CECs, involving in cell adhesion, proteoglycan and sulfur metabolic process. Importantly, several of these genes are disease target genes in hereditary corneal dystrophies, consistent with their functional significance in CEC physiology. By comparing fetal and adult CECs, we also identified stage-specific markers associated with CEC maturation, such as the activation of the Wnt pathway genes in fetal, but not in adult CECs. Lastly, by immunohistochemistry of ocular tissues, we further confirmed the unique protein expression patterns for Wnt5a, S100A4, S100A6, and IER3, the four novel markers for either fetal or adult CECs. The identification of a new panel of molecular markers for fetal and mature CECs would be very useful for characterizing and quality controlling CECs through ex vivo expansion or stem cell differentiation for cell replacement therapy.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE41616
GSE41716	Somatic copy-number mosaicism in human skin revealed by induced pluripotent stem cells (sequencing)	Reprogramming human somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) has been suspected of causing de novo copy number variations (CNVs). To explore this issue, we performed a whole-genome and transcriptome analysis of 20 human iPSC lines derived from primary skin fibroblasts of 7 individuals using next-generation sequencing. We find that, on average, an iPSC line manifests two CNVs not apparent in the fibroblasts from which the iPSC was derived. Using qPCR, PCR, and digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) to amplify across the CNVs' breakpoints, we show that at least 50%% of those CNVs are present as low frequency somatic genomic variants in parental fibroblasts and are manifested in iPSC colonies due to their clonal origin. Hence, reprogramming does not necessarily lead to de novo CNVs in iPSC, since most of line-manifested CNVs reflect somatic mosaicism in the human skin. Moreover, our findings demonstrate that clonal expansion, and iPSC lines in particular, can be used as a discovery tool to reliably detect low frequency CNVs in the tissue of origin. Overall, we estimate that approximately 30%% of the fibroblast cells have somatic CNVs, suggesting widespread somatic mosaicism in the human body. Our study paves the way to understanding the fundamental question of the extent to which cells of the human body normally acquire structural alterations in their DNA post-zygotically.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE41716
GSE41761	Dynamic Distribution of Linker Histone H1.5 in Cellular Differentiation	Linker histones are essential components of chromatin but the distributions and functions of many during cellular differentiation is not well understood. Here, we show that H1.5 binds to genic and intergenic regions, forming blocks of enrichment, in differentiated human cells from all three embryonic germ layers but not in embryonic stem cells. In differentiated cells, H1.5, but not H1.3, binds preferentially to genes that encode membrane and membrane-related proteins. Strikingly, 37%% of H1.5 target genes belong to gene family clusters, groups of homologous genes that are located in proximity to each other on chromosomes. H1.5 binding is associated with gene repression and is required for SIRT1 binding, H3K9me2 enrichment and chromatin compaction. Depletion of H1.5 results in loss of SIRT1 and H3K9me2, increased chromatin accessibility, deregulation of gene expression and decreased cell growth. Our data reveal for the first time a specific and novel function for linker histone subtype H1.5 in maintenance of condensed chromatin at defined gene families in differentiated human cells.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE41761
GSE41795	Accelerated high-yield generation of limb-innervating motor neurons from human stem cells	Human pluripotent stem cells are a promising source of diverse cells for developmental studies, cell transplantation, disease modeling, and drug testing. However, their widespread use even for intensely studied cell types like spinal motor neurons, is hindered by the long duration and low yields of existing protocols for in vitro differentiation and by the molecular heterogeneity of the populations generated. We report a combination of small molecules that induce up to 50%% motor neurons within 3 weeks from human pluripotent stem cells with defined subtype identities that are relevant to neurodegenerative diseases. Despite their accelerated differentiation, motor neurons expressed combinations of HB9, ISL1 and column-specific markers that mirror those observed in vivo in human fetal spinal cord. They also exhibited spontaneous and induced activity, and projected axons towards muscles when grafted into developing chick spinal cord. Strikingly, this novel protocol preferentially generates motor neurons expressing markers of limb-innervating lateral motor column motor neurons (FOXP1+/LHX3-). Access to high-yield cultures of human limb-innervating motor neuron subtypes will facilitate in-depth study of motor neuron subtype-specific properties, disease modeling, and development of large-scale cell-based screening assays.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE41795
GSE42006	Translatome of A549, H1299 and HBE cells	We performed translatome and transcriptome sequencing of A549, H1299 and HBE cells and analyzed the translation ratio (TR) of all genes	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42006
GSE42420	CFIm25 links alternative polyadenylation to glioblastoma tumour suppression	Purpose: To identify all of the APA targets of CFIm25 on a global scale and develop an algorithm that can idenitify APA events from standard RNA-seq data Methods: RNA from HeLa cells treated with control siRNA and CFIm25 siRNA were subject to RNA-Seq. Using a custom-designed algorithm to mine RNA-seq data for novel APA events regulated by CFIm25. Results: We identified over 1,400 genes with shortened 3UTRs after CFIm25 knockdown. Importantly, we show that as a consequence of APA, many of these mRNAs have greatly enhanced protein expression due to the loss of destabilizing features within the 3UTR. Conclusions: Our study underscored the critical function of the CFIm complex members in governing APA and establish a previously unknown link between APA and metabolic pathways important for tumor progression.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42420
GSE42509	Transcriptome-profiling (RNA-seq) and Ribosome-profiling (Ribo-seq) in proliferation, quiescence, senescence and transformed states.	We applied in parallel RNA-Seq and Ribosome-profiling analyses to immortalized human primary BJ fibroblast cells under the following conditions: normal proliferation, quiescence (induced by serum depletion), senescence (induced by activation of the oncogenic RASG12V gene, and examined at early (5 days; pre-senescent state) and late (14 days; fully senescent state) time points), and neoplastic transformation (induced by RASG12V in the background of stable p53 and p16INK4A knockdowns and SV40 small-T expression.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42509
GSE42563	DICER- andAGO3-dependent generation of retinoic acid-induced DR2 Alu RNAs regulates human stem cell proliferation (RNA-seq)	Although liganded nuclear receptors have been established to regulate RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-dependent transcription units, their role in regulating Pol III-transcribed DNA repeats remains largely unknown. Here we report that ~2-3%% of the ~100,000-200,000 total human DR2 Alu repeats located in proximity to activated Pol II transcription units are activated by the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) in human embryonic stem cells to generate Pol III-dependent RNAs. These transcripts are processed, initially in aDICER-dependent fashion, into small RNAs (~28-65 nt) referred to as repeat-induced RNAs that cause the degradation of a subset of crucial stem-cell mRNAs, includingNanogmRNA, which modulate exit from the proliferative stem-cell state. This regulation requiresAGO3-dependent accumulation of processed DR2 Alu transcripts and the subsequent recruitment ofAGO3-associated decapping complexes to the target mRNA. In this way, the RAR-dependent and Pol III-dependent DR2 Alu transcriptional events in stem cells functionally complement the Pol II-dependent neuronal transcriptional program.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42563
GSE42701	Direct Conversion of Fibroblasts to Neurons by Reprogramming PTB-Regulated microRNA Circuits	The induction of pluripotency or trans-differentiation of one cell type to another can be accomplished with cell lineage-specific transcription factors. Here we report that repression of a single RNA binding protein PTB, which occurs during normal brain development via the action of miR-124, is sufficient to induce trans-differentiation of fibroblasts into functional neurons. Besides its traditional role in regulated splicing, we show that PTB has a previously undocumented function in the regulation of microRNA functions, suppressing or enhancing microRNA targeting by competitive binding on target mRNA or altering local RNA secondary structure. A key event during neuronal induction is the relief of PTB-mediated blockage of microRNA action on multiple components of the REST complex, thereby de-repressing a large array of neuronal genes, including miR-124 and multiple neuronal-specific transcription factors, in non-neuronal cells. This converts a negative feedback loop to a positive one to elicit cellular reprogramming to the neuronal lineage.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42701
GSE42945	The novel functional effects of exogenous EBV-miR-BARTs on NPC progression	This SuperSeries is composed of the SubSeries listed below.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42945
GSE42951	Genome-wide maps of WT and over-expressing CenH3/CENP-A in Human HeLa S3 cells	Centromeres are essential to ensure proper chromosome segregation in eukaryotes. Their definition relies on the presence of a centromere-specific H3 histone variant CenH3, known as CENP-A in mammals. Its overexpression in aggressive cancers raises questions concerning its effect on chromatin dynamics and contribution to tumorigenesis. We find that CenH3 overexpression in human cells leads to ectopic enrichment at sites of active histone turnover. Furthermore, in over-expressing conditions, we see the formation of a novel heterotypic particle (CenH3-H4/H3.3-H4) that occludes CTCF binding, but this occlusion has only a minor effect on gene expression. Ectopic localization and CTCF occlusion depends on the H3.3 chaperone DAXX, rather than its dedicated chaperone HJURP. This DAXX-dependent occlusion also occurs in naturally overexpressing cancer cells. Furthermore, our cellular model reveals a DAXX-dependent survival advantage when challenged by DNA damage. Our findings illustrate how changes in histone variant levels can disrupt chromatin dynamics in disease and provides a possible mechanism for cell resistance to anti-cancer treatments.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42951
GSE42960	The effect of nicotinamide on dysregulated genes associated with frataxin deficiency in FRDA.	To investigate the efficacy of nicotinamide treatment using our ex-vivo primary lymphocyte model, we performed high-throughput RNA sequencing on libraries generated from untreated and nicotinamide treated samples.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE42960
GSE43093	Direct ChIP-bisulfite sequencing reveals a role of H3K27me3 mediating aberrant hypermethylation of promoter CpG islands in cancer cells (RNA-seq)	Aberrant DNA hypermethylation of CpG island (CGI) promoters are associated with transcriptional repression of many tumor suppressor genes and lead to tumor progression in many cancers. Most recently, one research group observed that aberrantly hypermethylated genes in multiple cancers are already repressed, but their promoters are maintained in a hypomethylated state in pre-cancerous tissues.Their studies didn't provide a clue to explain by what mechanisms those genes were repressed in pre-cancerous tissues. Another research group found that many genes with de novo promoter hypermethylation in colon cancer were among the subset of genes 'bivalently' marked in embryonic stem cells and adult stem/progenitor cells by repressive Polycomb group proteins (PcG), which are known for maintaining low, but poised, transcription.These observations provide a clue that CGI promoter hypermethylation in cancers is associated with PcG target genes in pre-cancerous tissues.we took advantage of ChIP-BS-seq technology and applied it to examine H3K27me3 and H3K4me3 profiles for one normal lymphoblastoid cell line (YH) and three cancer cell lines including one cervical cancer cell line (Hela) and two gastric cancer (GC) cell lines (BGC-823 and AGS).	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43093
GSE43143	RNA-Seq analysis of neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells reprogrammed from dental pulp	In this study, we investigated its suitability for disease modeling by carrying out gene expression profiling, using RNA-seq, on neurons derived from iPSCs made from dental pulp extracted from deciduous teeth (T-iPSCs) and fibroblasts (F-iPSCs).	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43143
GSE43296	Polysome-associated mRNA profiling of cancer cells in response to CXCL12 and IGF1	CXCL12 and IGF1 are key secreting molecules produced by cancer-associated fibroblasts in breast cancer. These factors promote the survival of disseminated cancer cells in the bone marrow. To assess the combined responses elicited by CXCL12 and IGF1, we examined the translating transcriptome of cancer cells in response to these two factors by Translating Ribosome Affinity Purification (TRAP)-RNAseq.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43296
GSE43306	Translating transcriptome of cancer cells in situ in mesenchymal-rich tumor microenvironment	A mesenchymal rich stroma such as cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in breast tumors favors the selection of cancer clones with enhanced bone metastatic ability. To determine the cancer cell transcriptomic response to the mesenchymal stroma, we supplemented experimental mammary tumours with or without exogenous mesenchymal cells. We used bone marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as a source of mesenchymal stroma, as MSCs have been shown to undergo CAF-like differentiation. We engineered the cancer cells to express an EGFP-tagged version of ribosomal protein L10a (EGFP-L10a). This allows the retrieval of cancer cell specific transcripts rapidly from whole tumor lysates by translating ribosome affinity purification (TRAP) and direct profiling of cancer cell gene expression patterns when they are in situ.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43306
GSE43440	Coordinated regulation of synthesis and stability of RNA during the acute TNF-induced proinflammatory response	Steady-state gene expression is a coordination of synthesis and decay of RNA through epigenetic regulation, transcription factors, miRNAs, and RNA-binding proteins. Here, we present Bru-Seq and BruChase-Seq to assess genome-wide changes to RNA synthesis and stability in human fibroblasts at homeostasis and after exposure to the proinflammatory TNF. The inflammatory response in human cells involves rapid and dramatic changes in gene expression, and the Bru-Seq and BruChase-Seq techniques revealed a coordinated and complex regulation of gene expression both at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. The combinatory analysis of both RNA synthesis and stability using Bru-Seq and BruChase-Seq allows for a much deeper understanding of mechanisms of gene regulation than afforded by the analysis of steadystate total RNA and should be useful in many biological settings.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43440
GSE43526	Co-ordinate inhibition of autism candidate genes by topoisomerase inhibitors [Seq]	Topoisomerases are necessary for the expression of neurodevelopmental genes, and are mutated in some patients with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). We have studied the effects of inhibitors of Topoisomerase 1 (Top1) and Topoisomerase 2 (Top2) enzymes on mouse cortical neurons. We find that topoisomerases selectively inhibit long genes (>100kb), with little effect on all other gene expression. Using ChIPseq against RNA Polymerase II (Pol2) we show that the Top1 inhibitor topotecan blocks transcriptional elongation of long genes specifically. Many of the genes inhibited by topotecan are candidate ASD genes, leading us to propose that topoisomerase inhibition might contribute to ASD pathology.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43526
GSE43549	Heterokaryon RNA Sequencing	We report the application of bi-species RNAseq for investigating mechanisms of reprogramming towards pluripotency using heterokaryons (mouse embryonic stem cell X human fibroblast cell fusions). The use of mixed species allows one to monitor reprogramming of the human somatic nuclei independently of contributions from the mouse nuclei using nucleotide differences. We used RNAseq to monitor heterokaryon reprogramming over a 3-day timecourse, generating transcriptome-wide data for cell fusion based reprogramming of human fibroblasts towards pluripotency.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43549
GSE43550	Small RNA Solexa sequencing of colorectal tumor and adjancent normal tissues	A pair of stage III colorectal cancer (CRC) tumor and adjacent normal tissue were collected from a patient without Transcatheter Arterial Infusion chemotherapy (TAI) during surgical resection of CRC tumors. Another pair of stage III CRC tumor and adjancent normal tissue were collected from another patient who had been treated with TAI one week before surgical resection. Total RNA of the collected tissues were extracted using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The integrity of the RNA was checked with an ultraviolet spectrophotometry and 2100 BioAnalyzer (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA). Construction of small RNA libraries from size fractionated RNA was carried out by following Solexa protocol and the obtained libraries were sequenced by Illumina HiSeq 2000 sequencer. We identified some de-regulated miRNAs in CRC tumor tissues. The expression levels of miR-142-5p were significantly reduced in tumor tissues of stage III CRC, then were increased significantly in tumor tissues receiving TAI and higher than tumor tissues without TAI. miR-142-5p is a potential tumor suppressor in CRC and is upregulated in tumor tissues after TAI, suggesting its potential clinical values for testing the functionality of TAI and predicting progress of CRC.	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE43550
